added username how-to-guide (#77)
dappforce/subsocial-docs: docs/develop/how-to-guides/usernames/FetchUsername.md

---
id: fetch-usernames
title: Fetching Usernames
displayed_sidebar: developSidebar
---
**This section covers how to fetch details about a particular username on the Subsocial blockchain.**

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> :::info What is Subsocial Username?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info What are Subsocial Usernames?
```

Subsocial usernames allow you to map a human-readable name to your Substrate account. Read more [here](/docs/tutorials/usernames).
:::

> Subsocial username entity allow you to map a data like urls, text, spaces to a human readable text. To explore these properties of an already registered domain, we can use the following approaches:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Subsocial username entity allows you to map data like URLs, text, and spaces to a human readable text string. To explore these properties of an already registered username, we can use the following approaches:
```

### Usernames by owner

> An owner is a substrate account that can hold upto 3 usernames for now, with following method we can fetch all of them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An owner is a substrate account that can hold up to 3 usernames for now. With the following method we can fetch all of them:
```

```typescript
api.blockchain.domainsByOwner(accountId: string): Promise<string[]>
```

Example:

```typescript
const accountId = '5HYYeCa1Hae5YYGJ2pHskHLVrA7V5WjaSuSbntidhhD9qqgs'
const usernames = await api.blockchain.domainsByOwner(accountId)
console.log(usernames)
```

Response:

```json
[
  "tusharojha.sub",

>   "ilovepolka.dot",

Reviewer: Change both of these to .sub as well, since you can only register .sub names now

>   "tusharojha.wagmi"

Reviewer: ^

const usernameDetails = await api.blockchain.registeredDomain(usernames)
return usernameDetails
```

Response:

```json
[
  {
    "created": {
      "account": "3omeLMCdtrojRPf7KyvTg78EvLxyJMo7mb2bqM28EEvxmXFM",
      "block": 344181,
      "time": 1649878698238
    },
    "updated": null,
    "expiresAt": 2972181,
    "owner": "3omeLMCdtrojRPf7KyvTg78EvLxyJMo7mb2bqM28EEvxmXFM",
    "content": {
      "none": null
    },
    "innerValue": {
      "space": 1626
    },
    "outerValue": "0x68747470733a2f2f6769746875622e636f6d2f6f6c65686d656c6c",
    "domainDeposit": 0,
    "outerValueDeposit": 2700000000
  },
  {
    "created": {
      "account": "3tXK2JzMuWPuMiboMMyYTfcYoN7NJwvHojgmBKiRDitKuMLo",
      "block": 406861,
      "time": 1651591092295
    },
    "updated": null,
    "expiresAt": 3034861,
    "owner": "3tXK2JzMuWPuMiboMMyYTfcYoN7NJwvHojgmBKiRDitKuMLo",
    "content": {
      "none": null
    },
    "innerValue": null,
    "outerValue": null,
    "domainDeposit": 10000000000,
    "outerValueDeposit": 0
  }
]
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> Try it yourself, on the [Subsocial Playground](https://play.subsocial.network/reading-data/domains/by-name).

### Username of a space

> A space can have username pointing to it, while building apps you might want to know about such usernames, you can easily get that using the following method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A space can have username pointing to it. While building apps you might want to know about these usernames, and you can easily get them using the following method:
```
